# Exploring the semantic variability of a far-right forum

Recent years have seen an increasing interest in computationally understanding extremist language. While one line of research seeks to detect radical online content, another line of research focuses on explaining extremists’ language through the topics discussed by extremist groups, expressed feelings, and information diffusion networks. This paper seeks to add to our understanding of how extremist language is represented semantically. Specifically, we investigate the intra- and inter-group semantic variability, comparing a far-right forum (Stormfront) to a non-radical one (Reddit). We propose a method to measure individual semantic representations by assessing the perturbations in a pre-trained Word2Vec model attributable to an individual’s text data. That approach is then applied to study differences in semantic representations between individuals. We found that, overall, Stormfront users’ representation of far-right words is more different to those of a neutral reference corpus than the Reddit users’ one. Results also show that for Stormfront users, the intra- group variability is higher than Reddit's one. We also found evidence for a positive correlation between word frequency and semantic variability as well as an interaction between word frequency and the forum membership: when word frequency gets higher, Reddit's semantic variability increases more than Stormfront's one. The findings as a whole suggest that, compared to non-radical ones, radical contents' word representation, while more diverse at low word frequencies, tend to have less sparse semantic representation when the term is used more.
